[Music]
and then this yen I had a memorable
conversation today with the director and
head chef of my college where I have
been studying cuisine for all of one
week as a vegan and it's apparently the
last week I'm ever gonna spend in a
college studying cuisine as a vegan I I
talked to the head of the school for
about an hour and a half in discussing
the reasons why I was handing in my
letter of resignation and getting my
refund as a student and tuition is
twelve thousand Canadian dollars so it's
a lot of money out of their pocket and
they sure would like to convince me to
stay in the program because of course
they're not gonna sell the same empty
seat to some other student and of course
you know a lot of the goodness of their
hearts they sure would like to see me
graduate and go on to a career getting
paid twelve dollars an hour to work in
the bag of kitchen somewhere there's no
doubt there's no doubt they also have a
humanitarian impulse trying to do the
best they they can for me but sure the
money is a big factor in this
conversation all other considerations
and intentions aside he said to me
towards the end of this long
conversation which i think is about an
hour and a half he said to me you know
can you tell me one thing
I just like to ask you this question he
said is it really so hard to be a vegan
he didn't mean it
in a cruel or Cadi way wasn't a
backhanded insult but through this long
conversation that was dealing with how
difficult it was to be a vegan student
in a non vegan cuisine College a non
vegan cooking college non vegan baking
program you know obviously this was us
this question was smouldering away for
him at the back of his mind you want to
ask me is it really that hard I gave him
a two-part answer that question both
both parts were yeah the answer first
half was yeah you know it really is that
hard you really do and
having a sense of being bullied and
confronted and cross-examined on why
you're vegan all the time I used the
same comparison with him that I used
when we talked to another professor
about this because we had a whole
running series of meetings these
professors asking us to justify our V
what why do you have to disrupt the
program being vegan they knew all this
we sign up for this College specifically
because they said they were Pro vegan
and positive what having vegan students
than at before they said they were a
hundred percent prepared and ready and
positively motivated to this and we
found out that they were 100% wrong so
we've been we've been having these kinds
of conversations a lot lately I said
look I was born Jewish but ethnically
I'm Jewish and not part of the Jewish
religion if you're Jewish if you grow up
Jewish you've answered the same
questions a hundred times and the person
asking you that question they may not
think they're being mean or
confrontational or even inappropriate
but for you it's the 100th time you've
heard the question and for them it's the
first time they've asked it so to give
an example if you're Jewish somebody
might ask you you know can you tell me
what is that why did youse wear this
kind of miniature hat what why is that
you know what is that really you only
may be a totally good-natured question
you may not man but of course it can
come off as especially if you are Jewish
and you fall
oh you've answered this a hundred times
or something you tell me something with
Jewish origin how did you come up with
this idea of cutting off the front half
of your penis the circumcision go what
where did that you know what what
inspired this did someone sit under an
apple tree one day and think sure sure
and you know obviously those questions
may be asked in in a warm spirited
warm-hearted way or they may be asked in
a more Kaddi way but if you grow up
Jewish you may have been asked those
questions a hundred times and you may
not be so happy to hear it for the 101st
time so I said first of all is a vegan
you've been asked some of these
questions
a hundred times and you don't want to
hear it 101 and the person asking you
they're not going to be sensitive that
they're they're not going to get that
and I say yeah it's hard
my daughter is in school in France and
the French education system
requires her to eat meat it is mandatory
in the French education system for all
the children you mean you got to fight
like hell every French parent every
vegan parent in France will talk about
this with you if he actually knew that
most of these professors have some
connections to France and French cuisine
so he actually right away he nodded he
did or he knew this about France the
yeah it was mandatory for the kids to
eat meat this was seen as part of their
cultural training introduction of French
cuisine in school and this this kind of
thing um even when my daughter was being
born when we were at the hospital all
the hospital food is meat and the
hospital trying to force you to eat meat
in the hospital staff being [ __ ] and
really asking you if you're a member of
a cult and they're not joking and them
really regarding you as if you're a
member of some weird cult like the Hari
Krishna's or Scientology or something
because you say you're vegan and sir I
didn't mention it of course my
experience with Melissa's family
treating me and saying - calling me a
cult leader really regarding veganism
Singh as something very negative in
those institutional context is that that
kind of press you you know I also said
to him I said all the time you deal with
constant confrontations with people who
just say that they were raised by
hunters shooting elk and deer and that
they think vegans are you know
hypocrites and terrible people you do it
all the time and I said in my life I've
dealt with way more backlash of that
kind of backlash is maybe a good word
then I've ever dealt with backlash about
being Jewish or you know Jewish as an
ethnicity or Judaism as a religion not
that many people have walked up to me
like tell me son
why did your ancestors have to kill
Jesus would you just you know when you
look back on good I mean if you have to
kill Jesus I mean this whole religion
would be so different today if we didn't
have to wear this this cross this
implement of excuse no I don't deal with
this kind of this kind of backlash for
Judaism and I do deal with the backlash
from veganism all the time so that was
one part of the answer and that was
amiable enough and the second part of
the answer was look we got a great
example right here with what we've been
discussing for the last hour or hour and
15 minutes whatever I did that
here's my here's my cuisine school
uniform they haven't figured out if
they're gonna give me a refund for the
uniform they promised me a refund for
the tuition but maybe I may be stuck
with the uniform they can't resell it
the uniform has my name stitched into
the back so looked real flattering on me
too makes my shoulders look huge not
that my shoulders aren't huge you
understand look anyway it's supposed to
be ah give you this kind of officious
and imposing air um I said you know you
realize that in the last five years
seven years or more I've looked at every
possible option for studying cuisine in
Europe every possible option in the
United States and I remember I specify
this I said even Texas which is true
there was one college in Austin Texas I
really looked into it son life so not
just obvious places like New York City
and Seattle but even some obscure places
like Texas I looked at so many colleges
coast to coast in Canada and I said the
reason why I settled on baking at all in
this process was that I found it was
really impossible to do cuisine
you know the whole discipline of cuisine
what everyone's say so the not just
baking but all forms of cooking all
forms of being a chef I thought it was
impossible and I was phoning up these
different colleges some of them by phone
some of them by email some of us got but
several Melissa and I visited in person
also and in every case the question is
can you accommodate a vegan student is
it possible to go through this program
as a vegan and most of them said no and
look bless their hearts thank them for
their honesty you're not gonna fight
these okay thank you thank you for not
wasting years of my life and thousands
of my dollars by lying to me and telling
me that I'll be just fine if I sign up
here as a student as a vegan if if I
really won't be if I really if I really
can't be and I remember especially with
the universities in Europe they were
often very blunt in just setting me back
an email
saying look no I'm sorry but these are
our guidelines and like 80% of what we
do and what you're tested on really is
specific to meat and dairy including
health guidelines what temperature has
to be kept at but all the skills all the
projects they all have to be meat and
dairy there's no way to go through this
as as a vegan there's no accommodation
whatsoever so now at this point I go
back several steps in the conversation
earlier in the conversation I had said
to him what you guys are selling here as
a product it's a tough sell tuition
alone is over 12,000 Canadian dollars
including the uniform including a very
nice set of knives that you get but
nevertheless twelve thousand dollar
price tag up front rent in the City of
Vancouver if you get a temporary
furnished furnished apartment like we
have you'd be lucky don't spend two
thousand dollars a month on rent
admittedly that's an apartment for the
two of us not myself alone as a bachelor
it was you are looking at more than a
twenty thousand dollar investment here
and there were a few really salient
comparisons to make one is that this is
a credential that qualifies you for a
job that pays twelve dollars an hour so
this costs me just in cash more than a
PhD in Canada and it qualifies me for
work in the back of a kitchen that's not
paid any better than being a dishwasher
who dropped out of high school and by
the way showed up to James one of my
patreon supporters he was he was
agreeing with me on this I had just some
posts on patreon I'm talking about low
the wages are and out for the benefits
are for all Baker's at all levels even
if you have a specialized college
diploma and so on and yeah it's
horrifying
you know oh great you'd be lucky to get
$15 an hour well if you spent more than
$20,000 on your education what's what's
the justification is this this is one
element and the other element is Canada
is a country with
tuition fees that's what I said I'm not
joking my said I could get a I could get
a PhD for less than this that wouldn't
be true in the United States of America
but it would be true in Canada or
Germany or several other countries in in
Western Europe where tuition is really
low for advanced academic studies a
community college teaching baking in
Montreal or Toronto Ontario Quebec but
BC normal community college programs and
in cuisine maybe as low as two thousand
dollars a year in tuition maybe five
thousand but you know this is the
ballpark and if you go to the government
and cry poor or and say you want some
special handouts and assistance because
of poverty and job retraining or
unemployment or you you signup for
assistance of different kinds you can
get social assistance and then that cost
of tuition is going to come down from
five thousand or two thousand to be
closer and closer to zero and to be a
debt that's amortized over many years
and that's how people get qualified to
work for $12 an hour not that credit
skill incidentally by the way the
federal government Canada lists baking
as a trade that's in critical shortage
that there are not enough because yeah I
wonder why I wonder why there's critical
shortage of Baker's because it's really
low paid really hard long hours and the
qualifications you need are not cheap or
raised together so said to look on these
two fronts the program you have here is
a really hard sell so why do you think
we chose your program we just up the
street here in Nanaimo there's a program
that's the normal Canadian price I think
it was two thousand a semester maybe
four thousand eight years something like
that was the regular Canadian price you
know being dramatically cheaper and by
the way the education spread over more
time and you know and totally
professional program we went and visited
met the professors and they have all
this heavy equipment they've a lot
equipment they don't have here they have
every heavy factory-style equipment not
just the artisanal stuff they have a
huge kiln wood-burning ovens several
different types of big ovens big stoves
big process so you know they have a lot
of advantages there they're cheaper and
they have theirs of you why do you think
we chose your college
for $12,000 instead of another college
for $2,000 it's because you were the
college who said you had your act
together to take on vegan students and
some of these things I'm saying are
quotations I mean I'm not paraphrasing
too far here but they said things like
repeatedly we've had vegan students
every single year that the college has
been open you're not the first vegan
students every year we have at least one
or two we have professors who themselves
are vegan we met one professor is eating
with in-concert current staff they only
have one vegan and others who are really
interested in plant-based cooking and
teach special plant-based cooking
modules and courses you know we support
this we sympathize with this we want you
to be all you can be we really empathize
what you guys want to do and this is you
know partly because they regard veganism
as a kind of trendy you know genre of
food services you know not really the
ethical or ecological side of it but you
know that they were really interested in
they identify as a college that
specializes in healthy cuisine and of
course there's a lot of strange self
contradiction and hypocrisy built into
that yeah okay maybe that's a topic for
another video but it's like they want to
measure out how much salt they use
really precisely to be good for your
health but the rest of the dish is like
eggs and cheese and steak and like you
know what what oh it's a good thing you
measured the salt out definitely
ludicrously unhealthy anyway you know
the other stuff that's the reality if
you're making non vegan food generally
and then even even in the baking
Department I mean these are not social
think is a healthy flan there's no such
thing as a healthy you know creme said
that you want filling in a pie ate like
come on guys what there's no attempt but
anyway this is uh this is a digression
you know from from a digression but we
chose this school we made this
commitment because it was supposed to be
possible and really positive for us to
be vegans at this school and we had the
crushing realization within the first
three days that this was really not true
at
now they're the particulars of what the
professor's said the particulars of what
they did but but broadly speaking
magista summarize it briefly I mean they
assured us that we were not the first
vegan students ever had they were expose
this and one things I said to them we
had a series of meetings the president
said look you guys are really acting
like we are the first vegan students yet
you're freaked out and I said that's a
Tony so Tony's the head of the whole
school the top chef top director
whatever top professor what I'm gonna
say but you know um you know he agreed
he really he became more honest and
relaxed as the conversation progressed
and he said yes he said it's true we
were you know we were freaked out we
were really freaked out you know we
didn't handle it well he was honest
enough to admit that that they did not
cope well with the challenge of and
what's what's the challenge instead of
using butter using margarine this is the
kind of substitution you're talking
about in the in the baking department
it's not that challenging of course if
you're doing like if you're teaching in
the the savory Department is they like
to say if you're doing a steak dinner
and you have to substitute for steak or
you're doing how-to stuff a turkey sure
doing a V that that's challenging but
you're doing stuff we're fundamentally
it's like okay replace butter with
margarine replace eggs with a flaxseed
concoction or we did chia-chia egg
you know egg substitutes listen it's not
that hard it really it really shouldn't
be that hard it really shouldn't be that
daunting you know so look I mean maybe
that's enough you know for this video I
don't know I mean I felt like it was
worthwhile to go through in a little bit
more detail what his misapprehensions
about veganism were you know why you
know why this was so daunting to him
because I mean ultimately it's the same
thing with authority figures in France
like you know the hospital employees the
nurses the doctors why are they so
freaked out in hostile towards me when
they find out I'm vegan why are the
teachers and the principal at the school
so free to know so why is this such a
big deal even for someone who's
you know devoted his or her life to to
cuisine it shouldn't really be it
shouldn't really be so shocking Melissa
just mentioned off camera one of the
comments made but one of the other
professors so they they call them selfs
of course they're both are a chef and a
professor in this College uh one of them
one of them said in a somewhat awkward
stumbling manner well we've had other
vegan students before but none of them
are quite as I don't remember her
finishing the sentence they're not
they're not like you she didn't even say
inflexible she didn't want to say
something and something they're not as
much as you and I suggested that where I
said strident like you know you know the
boy they don't work you know right you
know but yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah in
another case do they use inflexible like
it could have been another context
that's right that's right yeah yeah yeah
well no the the first approach that both
chef Stacey and shape chef Toni
use with me was that they said well we
respect your principles so you have to
respect ours and it was just like homie
I just made a pie made of dead animal
parts you do not respect I by the way i
did not say homie this is being polite
at the time i'm just telling the story
in a more more jocular way but that came
up again with Toni today where I really
said you know you're not in a position
to tell me you respect my principles and
I respect yours when I've been throwing
my principles out the window to conform
to your program because you didn't live
up to your promises to give me a vegan a
vegan option if even with you so just
say both of them were sharp you were
there Melissa's here off camera by the
way I'm not talking to a coconut with a
face drawn on it with a grace in case
you were imagining I love coconut snow
gave me more some of the great sense of
humor
better than Bonnie Rebecca most of the
youtubers these days talk to a coconut
than most of my fellow youtubers but
look um you know
I know I know I'm with only gonna try to
dot no no no it's good so so babe what
we're talking we're talking about the
actual wording of them saying we've had
other vegans but noticing is here right
right okay okay it's hard so I'm young
you know I'm stead of more down that's
what's heard from you right I thought
kiss her with both of the professors who
confronted us on this I thought they
really took a step back and were really
shaken up when I just asked them simply
have you had Muslim students before so
did you notice that also and just
suddenly they were like whoa and and I
said yeah I said when you have Muslim
students do you ask them to cook pork
and they said no we use a substitute it
substitutes something else or pork I
said have you add Hindu students before
and actually in both cases they seemed
like a little like big maybe weren't
sure if they had a Hindu student aren't
that many Hindus studying here I think
and I said if you had a Hindu student
you wouldn't ask them to cook beef right
it's like that's that's the situation
we're in here you know and I think on
chef Stacie I thought that did have an
immediate impact I thought she was just
very intimidated and very shocked and
had never thought about it that way
before like oh this is like asking a
Muslim to butcher or hog you're not
gonna eat the hog but you're still gonna
cook it we're asking a Hindu to butcher
a cow and prepare cow meat and it is I
mean the Hindu comparison is better
because there there's actually enough
more of an ethical component so when we
had our third meeting that day with an
even at the end of the day we had
another meeting with chef Stacie and at
that time I took it a little further and
said to her look the vast majority of
Muslims are
just born Muslim some people convert to
Islam they didn't choose this and they
themselves don't know why or maybe don't
even question why why they don't heat a
pig but are willing to eat a cow and
other people as you know are not willing
to eat a dog but they are really need a
goat or a sheep and guess what the
reason is
magic it's not rational it's not ethical
it's not ecological a pig suffers just
as much as a dog or a goat it suffers as
much as it possibly can when you slit
its throat it's just magical thinking
and I mentioned also with Stacey you
were their baby I said you know why is
it they can't eat one type of fish and
can't eat another so you guys may not
know this you know Jews who are kosher
will refuse to eat lobster but they're
going to eat all kinds of other ocean
creatures it's just it's just magical
it's just a magical line that says eat
this don't eat that because the Bible
says so or a commentary on the Bible
says so some religion and said look you
know we chose this it really matters to
us it is rational it is ethical and it's
the reason why we're here studying
cuisine with you like we're not here
studying cuisine despite the fact that
we're vegan we're here studying cuisine
because were vegan like that's the whole
reason we enrolled in your college and
paid $12,000 in tuition so do this this
is the this is the situation so with
both Stacie and Tony that had some kind
of an impact but to be honest I don't
think either one of them really
comprehended what was going on they just
got the sense like whoa there's there's
a bunch of stuff here I hadn't thought
about before like they think they just
realized they weren't gonna bully their
way through this by using [ __ ] you
know thought terminating cliches like we
respect your principles therefore you
have to respect our principles you know
that oh there's really something there
to think about
so and you know just curiously in terms
of the sequence of this but
for any of these conversations happened
before any of the conversations have
mentioned this video happened
Stacey called us in for a meeting in
which she basically said this is a
summary but it is a fair summary she
basically said look I don't want you to
be disappointed I don't want you to feel
we're wasting your time maybe you should
just drop out of the program and she did
say it in a nice way but that was the
purpose of that meeting and that was the
start of day three that was in the
morning on day three of the course
before any of these conversations that
happened before and you hadn't he had
not even occurred to me to drop out of
the program
it definitely hadn't occurred to me that
they would ask me to drop part of like
that was I didn't even think that was on
the list of options and I I didn't think
there'd be a refund I didn't think
they'd give us a but they but that they
were offering us a refund a 100% refund
on tuition ahead of recognition that
they were really not delivering what
they were supposed to deliver so that's
also interesting it's money out of their
pocket and it's it's a failure for them
on on many different levels first things
last however the reason for my quitting
when I did and how I did my reason for
going up to the desk and saying okay
yesterday you offered me a 100% refund
if I quit now I'm here to take it
I'm here to see that offer was none of
these sophisticated reasons about vegan
ethics and The Clash of Civilizations
here it was because I had a burn I got a
burn at the oven on the job and they did
not have their act together at all in
terms of a first aid kit in terms of the
basic principles of get ice get burn gel
get a bandage I don't want to go through
the exact details would happen but I
mean you know there were no bandages in
the first-aid kit when I eventually did
get the first-aid kit
there were allegedly was a first-aid kit
but you couldn't get to it it's it was
total incompetence and a total sorry
it's not just a lack of competence also
a lack of concern or care it was really
disrespectful and denigrating
me the way the particular professor
acted in this situation and the
professors were doubled up for that
lesser the the particular professor was
talking about nothing else to do one
professor was standing and doing a
demonstration and she was standing there
the other professor the second professor
was standing and doing nothing I'm not
folding her for that but the way she
handled my burn you know he got to me on
many different levels
for me I'm not really cool with now
having a permanent scar on my arm
because of this momentary thing I'm not
cool with thinking if you guys had a
first-aid kit
and burn cream maybe that would have
reduced or averted my having a permanent
scar mo if you guys that I served but
cared you know this you know it would
have reduced the amount of pain I was in
for several hours because I wasn't a lot
of pain for the first hour after this
happened back in 1997 I worked at
Starbucks as a shift supervisor and I
had my act together to help the other
employees when somebody got burned on
the job you work with burning hot
equipment at Starbucks people get burned
and it's exactly that procedure get ice
get the you know get the first aid kit
the first aid kit it's gotta contain you
know burn gel and bandages of different
sizes big enough to cover a burn it's
you're not having the adhesive directly
on the burn or what have you it's a
pretty simple pretty simple procedure
I'm starting to Melissa about a -
Melissa's mom's a nurse or whatever and
you know I said look this burn was
handled with total incompetence and
total lack of consideration even
apologize to me what there were nobody
said I'm sorry we don't have a first-aid
kit or the first-aid kit doesn't contain
the dad the shell it doesn't contain the
things that suppose again
not one person apologized not one person
cared and the professor was standing
there doing nothing and finding things
to pass time instead of helping me the
actual case I presented to Tony wasn't
to do with these more sophisticated
questions of vegan ethics I said to him
look if your school does not have it
act together on a burn a burn in a
bakery I said look I understand if
somebody has some rare health condition
if somebody has an allergic reaction or
a concussion and something really
unusual and the teachers don't know how
to handle it I understand and it turns
out somebody has is allergic to lentils
and they they break out in hives and you
don't do fine this is this is a baking
class people are gonna get burned people
are gonna get cut every year these are
students in educational institution
learning how to bake people are gonna
get burned people are gonna get cut and
you do not have your act together to
deal with a be sick
predictable emergency micromo two
tiniest emergency imaginable this this
you're not organized for that to me I've
lost all respect for you as an
institution I have lost all respect for
that particular professor for her
conduct in this situation and that's why
I want to leave the University and he
tried to do a lot of things that
authority figures do in terms of
misdirecting and de railing the
conversation and apportioning blame to
me and i honestly think he was doing
that unintentionally he's just so used
to being an authority figure and having
conversations that he said a lot of
things out there also that we're just
kind of like very vaguely true in
general for some other students some
other circumstances bad don't look that
doesn't apply to my situation at all
like what do you talking about like it's
some points you just digress into saying
like oh well you know you need to have
patience like I understand like doing
the classes is really hard feels like
what are you talking about I've finished
every assignment like 15 minutes before
the other students like no it's not hard
the classes aren't difficult any
imbecile can you know fold oh I mean the
actual assignments no it's not
challenging for me that's not what we're
talking about we're talking about the
fact that you didn't have a first-aid
kit and you didn't train your staff you
know they don't care they didn't even
try when someone got a burn and you know
he was trying to apportion blame to me
by suggesting he said like oh well you
know if you have these really high
standards or these high expectations
then you wouldn't be happy anywhere and
I said you think that having a first-aid
kit as good as
Starbucks is too high in expectation you
think you think that when someone gets
burned having a bandage on hand you
think that's too much of a next week you
know you're had to keep bringing it vac
to see it because he was trying to turn
things around the conversation and make
it seem as if the problem here was that
I was complaining and not that there had
really been a misstep or violation of
protocol or a lapse in lapse in judgment
to her organization or his lapse in
responsibility on the part of the school
and of course it was a long conversation
and he said you know he said many things
he was really trying to convince me to
stay in the program of course money is a
big part of that he said look I don't
think you should let this bad experience
with the burn and the lack of a
first-aid kit and the disorganization
and the bad conduct of one professor I
don't think you should let that convince
you to to quit this course and I said to
him well if this were a situation where
I felt really positively about the rest
of the college program of course you'd
be right you'd say okay this is just one
particular program and another wise good
college program but you realize my
experience here is really negative and
really terrible and we had to talk about
that a lot veganism being the main thing
we talked about their lack of
preparation to deal with that so in that
context of you being a college program
charging a luxury price $12,000 that has
totally discredited itself that's been
crucially incompetent in precisely the
areas I care about most where there have
been a lot of red flags and a lot of
problems in the first week already and
then this happens of the burn
you know I said look the BART it's not
the straw that broke the camel's back
because that suggests something very
light and minor in itself this to me
really was very significant it was very
meaningful in terms of just I mean I
said to him we talked about the issue of
the dignity of the student and how are
you gonna feel as a student in the
classroom if you're treated this way
when you have a burn he treated this way
when you have these other problems we
had in the course the emnity this
creates between you and the the
professor the invidious division to you
and the professor this
it's um but I also just said to him look
I had to go out for my 30-minute lunch
break and it's only 30 minutes long and
when I came back I was still furious
about the way I had been treated and
administrated over this barn furious
okay you you really want me to go back
in the classroom in this situation were
you guys with your conduct you've
completely poisoned the educational
experience me you've really created an
invidious situation an adversarial
relationship between the professor and
the student and in a situation where
you're working in a small classroom
hands on face to face for long hours
from 8:30 a.m. until at least 4:30 p.m.
p.m. every day you know hands on what is
it you get two or three professors and
16 students it's very close you know
sorry 14 14 students and you know you
you've completely poisoned that for me
with with the conduct and attitudes the
professors in this first week so no it's
it's not just the straw that broke the
camel's back it really matters to me
it's a log good not a straw in and of
itself the fact that you didn't live up
to my reasonable expectations from how
we handled burns at Starbucks in 1997 it
matters the fact that I may not have a
permanent mark on my arm for no reason
and the callous attitude of this
professor towards it it does in itself
matter when you're in a position where
you're paying $12,000 and you're
spending 60 percent of your time in
class cleaning dishes really today in
the morning session I did dishes three
times I spent the majority of my time
today not learning not doing anything
just doing dishes that's due to bad
organization and bad equipment and bad
choices that make setting up when we
already have this dispatch situation and
now you want me to come here and hate
the professors and be hated by them you
know because that's the other thing at
the Nvidia sness they're a little bit
afraid of us now because we're the
vegans who won't just get along with the
vegans who won't eat meat we're gonna
tell you the vegan some aren't happy to
just you know bake and even eat you know
these other kinds of cakes and pastries
are non vegan food you
whatever why would we be why would you
be even enrolled in this program we'd be
holding any other program from one of
the high end you know cuisine course
that did meat and dairy and stuff this
is the whole point this is supposed to
be the one institution that was really
open to us and embraced us in a in a
positive way so guys it's for me it's a
crushing defeat in a lot of ways you
know I said to Melissa earlier um some
people mistake me for an egomaniac
here's how an egomaniac would respond
which in some ways is a really kind of
positive upbeat attitude towards life is
a kind of survivalist attitude an
egomaniac would just say well I was too
good for this institution anyway they
don't deserve me I can do better or I'll
find a better college or even if you
don't if you decide to drop the topic
entirely that somehow just blame the
other party and find no blame in
yourself and just reassure yourself that
you're always too good on I don't feel
that way at all I have none of that
excuse making going on in my mind that
none of that you know self-justification
going on in my mind I just feel awful I
feel like I devoted the better part of a
year of my life to this and it's gonna
leave a huge gap in my year and in fact
and it makes the next 10 years of my
life very uncertain and this was
something that meant a lot to me because
of vegan activism because of my relation
with my daughter just the idea of baking
cakes for my daughter my own kind of
family role ultimately even my
relationship to you guys with with
YouTube so this is now a huge black hole
that I got a fill I got to take my time
and energy and talent and pour it into
something else and of course that may
turn out for the best but at this moment
I have no excuses and I'm not casting
blame on anyone else you know what I
mean like I don't I don't demonize the
other people I can even recognize that
for them from their perspective they
were doing the best they could and that
shows when I said to them well do you
ask a Muslim to cook pork do you ask a
Hindu or a Buddhist or something to cook
beef and they just it just never entered
their heads they thought about veganism
like a nut allergy you know what I mean
that that really is it they thought
about it like having a student who's
allergic to peanuts and it's not in
closing this video and by the way you
may have noticed the video
for this did not have a single edit it
was one take continuously but this video
has a bunch of a bunch of edits a bunch
of jump cuts because I'm really
exhausted I'm really emotionally worn
down with this I've been through you
know fury and disappointment and you
know this has been such an emotionally
draining day I'm exhausted you know in a
in a profound sense here but it's gonna
mention to close this video on the very
first day of class in cuisine College
each of the professors and each of the
students gave a little short lecture
about who they were their life their
involvement in baking but in almost
every case it was also about what job
did they have before they got into
because for most of these people going
into cuisine was a mid-career or
transition or midlife transition so one
of the and I mentioned this to Tony in a
conversation that one of the instructors
said that she had a totally different
career in academia she just vaguely said
she wasn't academic so I seemed she was
something like an assistant professor or
maybe just a teaching assistant
university but she had somehow been
going through the academic process at a
high enough level to be employed by
University I presume the teaching
capacity and she said she got to the
point with that job where she just felt
so crushed by it and every Monday she
said I've read Monday before she went to
work she would cry she would Quran
Monday's before before when at work and
then she hit a breaking point and she
decided to start from scratch and go
back to college and learn how to be a
baker that was now more ten more than
ten years ago
so she now had more than ten years of
baking experience before it was a
mid-career transition and the way I put
it to Tony was you know you don't think
if I stayed here that I'd be in the
position of crying every Monday before I
come to your classes at this college
like it's that bad what you've set up
here in terms of the invidious and
adversarial situation where you know I I
don't want to be here I don't want were
these drift they don't want to work with
me you know I mean they there's a
there's a veneer of professionalism
there but you know all this behavior on
the professor's part they're you know
they're really shaken up
they really have an animus against me
and I don't want to show up and fight it
I mean I'm better off I'm better off
putting my energy into you know into
anything else sure that's that's how I
put it to Tony but more broadly you have
to ask yourself also if the job you end
up doing is paying you $12 an hour maybe
$15 an hour and you're spending your
time washing dishes with people who are
high school dropouts and illegal
immigrants there's a lot of illegal
immigrants working in kitchens working
in food services who are getting paid
the same amount of money you are you
know if that's the path you're going on
and yeah I mean all this stuff Tony
target with it and being treated
abusively and nobody caring when you get
a burn and no first aid kit and no
health care and just you know total
indifference and and you know
callousness to you so what do you think
do you think there's nobody in this room
for whom this decision to go into baking
his career it's gonna be something
they're gonna wake up and cry about on
Mondays I leave you with that thought
guys we got into this you know for all
the right reasons and you know I really
feel I'm getting out for just the same
reason that I encountered in studying
Chinese in university in Canada studying
Japanese University in Canada studying
so many different topics political
science Buddhism you know Pali Sanskrit
India so many it talks into so many
headings the quality of university and
college education in Canada is abysmally
low at any price you could have a
terrible education at luxury prices that
in a nutshell is my experience with
Northwestern Culinary Academy of fan
Coover I'm going to go put in a yelp
review
evolution